a bottleneck funnels these exiting bats
into dense concentrations attracting the
attention of others
[Music]
the bats can detect the snakes using
echolocation
but the snakes are literally in the dark
they can
see nothing
the strikes seem to be largely hit and
miss
but the snakes have a secret weapon
they can actually sense each bat flying
past
receptors in the snake's head pick up
the heat given off by the flying bats
as this thermal image shows
[Laughter]
to the snakes the bats are apparently
glowing
and this gives them something to aim at
[Music]
this is the price that these cave
commuters must pay
for their daytime sanctuary underground
small wonder then that there are other
cave dwellers
that stay put
a male red sided garter snake
he survived the winter by hibernating
underground
where the temperature never dropped
below zero
the weak sun persuades more males to
emerge
they're cold and can't move fast yet
they are
in an urgent race the first males to
warm up
will have a head start when the first
females appear
meltwater provides the first drink
they've had for six months
so
at last a female has emerged
the warmest males will inevitably be the
first to react
to her smell she will only mate once
so competition between them is intense
this male has overslept
he will need hours to warm up at the
moment
he stands no chance of mating
most of the other males are ready to
chase females but
curiously some leave the race and go
to join the cold mail
they slide their warm buddies over him
just as they would
if they were courting a female
[Music]
more and more males crowd around him
why
their relative temperatures show what's
going on
his cool body showing as blue is quickly
warming
as it absorbs heat from the other males
he's a trickster he's fooled the others
by giving off a scent
just like a females and they are trying
to mate with him
he only needs a few minutes of this to
steal enough heat from his rivals
to catch up and join the chase
every spring tens of thousands of garter
snakes
fight it out in this mating frenzy
it is in numbers the greatest gathering
of reptiles
in the world
our fear of snakes is really a fear of
vipers
yet it's mixed with fascination too
if there's one viper everyone's heard of
it's this one
the rattlesnake
rattlesnakes belong to a group called
pit vipers
found all over the new world
[Music]
like all vipers they're ambush predators
there's a lot we don't know about snakes
that's one of the things that makes them
dangerous
rattlesnakes hunt at night so if you
want to hunt them
that's the best time to do it
a junkyard is viper heavy with plenty of
hiding places to launch an ambush
[Music]
somewhere in the darkness the world's
most prolific killer
is waiting
[Music]
it's armed to the eyeballs with a lethal
injection of venom
shelton herbert and curtis railing are
snake bite scientists
they're armed with just a rubber glove
on a stick
but there is method in their madness
tonight they've left the safety of the
lab to collect a sample of
fresh venom in the wild
[Music]
they want to measure the poison in a
rattlers strike
but first they've got to get the snake
to bite the glove
vipers are predators but it's
self-defense
that makes them deadly to humans
it's not our fear of vipers that's a
problem
it's their fear of us
[Music]
suddenly in the spotlight baffled by
this bizarre intruder
the snake turns on its first line of
defense
[Music]
it doesn't want to resort to violence
it can store about a teaspoon of venom
at a time
but once used up that takes days to
refill
so here's the dilemma to bite or not to
bite
[Music]
there is a compromise the rattler can
bluff it
use its fangs but not its venom it's
called
a dry bite
but if you still don't take the hint
you're asking for the real thing
frozen in time we see what makes the
vipers bite
unique erect fangs right up front
they're only in the victim for a
fraction of a second but that's long
enough
if this was your hand it would need a
shot of anti-venom
fast
[Music]
red eyed tree frogs that keep a lower
profile generally mate successfully
they are careful breeders their spawn is
not laid in the cut and thrust
environment of the forest pond
the female extrudes her eggs onto the
underside of a leaf
each protected within its own miniature
pool
[Music]
but new life is rarely out of harm's way
cat-eyed snakes slink around the
seasonal pools
tasting the night air for the hint of
newly laid frogspawn
cat-eyed snakes are partial to frog's
eggs but they can really stomach the
whole
jellied mass down in the pond
there are lots of hungry mouths that
would make even more of a meal
overall red-eyed frogs have a better
chance of developing on the leaf
[Music]
they drip into the pond as more advanced
tadpoles
better able to defend themselves
[Music]
[Applause]
they run the gauntlet of two worlds they
feed underwater
but also need to break the tort surface
for air
[Music]
fishing spiders thrive on surface
tension the water's skin becomes an
extension of their own
their legs are like primed triggers as
they wait for a contact
if you've seen deadly 60 before then
you'll know that rock climbing
and snakes are two of my favorite things
in the world so
going rock climbing looking for snakes
is kind of my idea of heaven
but there is a very real reason for this
you look along the water line here
you'll see the rock face is pop marked
with tiny holes and
that's where i think we're gonna find
our snake unfortunately
johnny my cameraman is uh he's pretty
tough
but even he can't swim over there
carrying that huge camera
and climb up the rock face filming using
it so everything i see
i'm gonna have to film myself in a
deadly 60s style
time to get wet
the boat can't get any closer to the
rocks so to get there
i'm gonna have to swim without getting
the bag with the camera in west of
course
there's an entrance to a cave here i'm
gonna have a squeeze through and see
what i can find
the snake comes out onto the rocks after
hunting in the sea to chill out
and digest its dinner so it's a good
chance for me to get a closer look
kind of weird this crawling into a
deep cave looking for deadly venomous
snakes
oh look at that
i've got it i've got my first yellow lip
crate
it's the exact kind of snake that we
came here to this island to find
this has got to be one of the strangest
snake catchers i've ever done
hanging off the edge of a rock with a
camera in one hand and a venomous snake
in the other
so i've got to keep my wits about me and
concentrate
if you're wondering how it got the name
yellow lit secret
have a look at the front of its head
this bright yellow marking across the
front of its snout gives it its name
the snake is just resting on the rocks
but i want to see them in action
but i'm not going looking up there i'm
going down there
so i've got to get kitted up for diving
and search for one of these venomous
snakes
in their watery environment one two
three
[Music]
[Applause]
you